HTML

Hyper Text Markup Language
Used to define the structure of a web page by marking and dividing things into 
elements using tags

CSS

Cascading Style Sheets

Style sheet language that defines formatting of a document written in markup
language. Typically used with HTML. HTML is content, CSS is presentation. CSS
defines how things look visually. CSS reduces complexity and repetition, because
one external .css file can be used on multiple HTML documents that have elements
that need identical formatting, and if formatting needs to be changed across
all the HTML documents using that file, only that one .css file needs to be
edited.

Javascript

High-level, dynamic, weakly typed, and interpreted programming language.
Javascript code is run on the client, the web browser. It is used to make
websites interactive, dynamic. Javascript uses the HTML DOM to access and change
elements of an HTML document.

HTTP

Hypertext Transfer Protocol. Communication protocol at the application layer.
Used to send and recieve hypertext, like HTML documents. HTTP operates on
client-server basis. An HTTP client, that can be a browser, sends requests for 
web resources to the server. HTTP resources are identified by a URL. HTTP also
defines so called "HTTP methods", that show what action the client wants to 
perform on the resource requested, for example, typically to request an HTML 
document a "GET method" is used. Other common methods are POST, PUT and DELETE.

HTML5

HTML5 is the current version of the HTML standard. HTML5 introduced new semantic
elements, new attributes to form elements, new graphic elements - SVG and 
canvas - and new multimedia elements - <audio> and <video>. It also introduced
new API's, for example, HTML Geolocation and HTML Local Storage.

DHTML

DHTML is a collection of technologies used to make interactive, animated web
pages by using a static markup language, clien-side scripting language,
presentation definition language and the DOM - basically: HTML, CSS and 
Javascript. DHTML enables scripting languages (Javascript) to change variables
of definition language (CSS), which changes the visual look of otherwise static
web page. This is done after the web page is fully loaded and during the viewing
of it. With DHTML there is no interaction with a web server, all actions are
executed in Javascript on the client side.

