What is the purpose of the RWD? Why it is used? How things are done
before RWD? What is the difference?

The purpose of RWD is to make websites look and feel good on different screen 
sizes. Unresponsive websites designed for desktop can look bad on very small or
very large screens. One problem, for example, that RWD solves is that
unresponsive websites designed for desktop will probably have to be scrolled
horizontally on smaller phone screens, which can be tedious and annoying - RWD
makes it so the website adapts so that it needs only vertical scrolling. Before
RWD separate website versions were made specifically for phones, for exmaple, or
for specific devices, like "mobile.nytimes.com". The difference now is that
there is no need for separate versions of websites for specific devices,
 because responsive websites can adapt and look good on any screen size.

How css media queries can help you building responsive web sites?

With media queries you can find out information about the current device, for
example, width and height of the screen, orientation (landscape or portrait 
mode) or its resolution. In addition, an expression that evaluates to true or 
false is used to resolve whether to use a certain media query style. For 
example, a style will be applied only if screen is wider than 1000px or only if 
width is less than 1000px. This means that you can set width breakpoints for 
when design should change to accomadate the screen size of the current device.

Why to use em (font) based sizing for example margins?

Because when element is using em, to determine the actual size, it will use the 
font size of it's parent element. This means that if user has made the font size
smaller or bigger, all padding, margins and fonts that are using em will adjust
accordingly, this way all proportions of the design will be conserved. Em means
the size of the letter "M", therefore it is linked to font size.

Article is already 7 years old, do we have any new technology which can
be used to achieve same type of UI responsiveness as described in the
article. Buzz words: (CSS Grid, Flexbox)

CSS Grid - a grid elemnt consists of items divided into rows and columns. Items 
can span multiple rows or columns. CSS grids perserve the proportions of its 
items if screen size changes.

Flexbox - flexbox consists of one or more child elements. Flexbox has some 
responsive features. Child elements can wrap and stack in the flexbox if it's
width or height changes. Also proportions will be perserved between the child 
elements and the spacing around them if flexbox size changes.

Bootstrap - popular framework for making responsive websites. Bootstrap has a 
grid system that allows to divide a page into 12 columns, you can group columns
to make wider columns. Columns will rearrange automatically when screen size 
changes, for example, columns that are side by side on a desktop screen could be
made to stack vertically on a phone screen.